readme.md, before:

# *Preppy*

**An incredibly simple and lightweight tool for preparing packaging for the publishing process.**

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sebastian-software/preppy/master/demo.gif?raw=true" alt="Demo of Preppy" /><br/>

[![Sponsored by][sponsor-img]][sponsor] [![Version][npm-version-img]][npm] [![Downloads][npm-downloads-img]][npm]<br/>
[![Build Status Unix][travis-img]][travis] [![Build Status Windows][appveyor-img]][appveyor] [![Code Coverage][codecov-img]][codecov] [![Dependencies][deps-img]][deps]

[sponsor]: https://www.sebastian-software.de
[deps]: https://david-dm.org/sebastian-software/preppy
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/preppy
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/sebastian-software/preppy
[appveyor]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/swernerx/preppy/branch/master
[codecov]: https://codecov.io/gh/sebastian-software/preppy

[sponsor-img]: https://badgen.net/badge/Sponsored%20by/Sebastian%20Software/692446
[deps-img]: https://badgen.net/david/dep/sebastian-software/preppy
[npm-downloads-img]: https://badgen.net/npm/dm/preppy
[npm-version-img]: https://badgen.net/npm/v/preppy
[travis-img]: https://badgen.net/travis/sebastian-software/preppy?label=unix%20build
[appveyor-img]: https://badgen.net/appveyor/ci/swernerx/preppy?label=windows%20build
[codecov-img]: https://badgen.net/codecov/c/github/sebastian-software/preppy

## 🥁 Features:

- Rock solid infrastructure. Builds on well maintained Babel and Rollup under the hood.
- Supports multiple entries (cli, client, server, library, ...) - even multiple binary entries.
- Creates multiple output formats (ESM, CommonJS, UMD, ...)
- Exports TypeScript definitions (respects `types` definition in `package.json`).
- Rebases assets to the bundled output destination. Say hello to images, web fonts, and more. It also supports assets references in CSS/SCSS.
- Includes a *watch mode* for live development of libraries.
- Supports auto-executing binaries. This is *super useful* when dealing with development web servers for example.
- Offers builds by compressing bundles with *Terser* as needed (for files with `.min` in their name).
- Prints out generated file sizes of all bundles.
- Injects common env-variables into the build (`BUNDLE_{NAME|VERSION|TARGET}`, `NODE_ENV`)
- Executes Babel with an environment based on `NODE_ENV` but with additional data from the `target` (e.g. `node`, `lib` or `cli`) and the output `format` (e.g. `esm`, `cjs`)
- Supports JSON out of the box and inlines the serialized content into the bundle.


## 🔧 Installation:

For Preppy itself installation is done by executing one command.

```console
$ npm install -D preppy
```

Dependending on your transpiling needs you need Babel with the requires presets/plugins. This is nothing extra to install typically as you might have these things in-place already. Example:

```console
$ npm install -D @babel/plugin-transform-runtime @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-typescript @babel/core
$ npm install @babel/runtime corejs
```


### Configure Babel

As transpiling happens via Babel you have to install the *Babel* Core, Plugins and Presets on your own. You also need to use a standard Babel Configuration inside your package.

Example `babel.config.js` (has to be CommonJS unfortunately):

```js
module.exports = (api) => {
  const env = api.env()
  const caller = api.caller((inst) => (inst && inst.name) || "any")

  const isBundler = caller === "rollup-plugin-babel"
  const isCli = caller === "@babel/node"
  const isTest = (/\b(test)\b/).exec(env)
  const modules = (isTest && !isBundler) || isCli ? "commonjs" : false
  const isUmd = (/\b(umd)\b/).exec(env)

  return {
    sourceMaps: true,
    plugins: [
      isUmd ? null : [
        "@babel/transform-runtime", {
          corejs: 3
        }
      ]
    ].filter(Boolean),
    presets: [
      [
        "@babel/env",
        {
          useBuiltIns: "usage",
          corejs: 3,
          loose: true,
          modules
        }
      ],
      [
        "@babel/typescript",
        {
          allExtensions: true,
          isTSX: true
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

Note: `env` gets a lot more depth when working with *Preppy*. It's actually set to this: `${env}-${target}-${format}` e.g. `"development-browser-esm"`. This gives you more control e.g. more setting up targets for *Browserslist*.

Note: Leave out the `"@babel/typescript"` when you do not need TypeScript transpiling.

Note: Please disable `transform-runtime` for all UMD builds as UMD is better working when only clean named imports are kept external.

### Installing Babel Dependencies





## 📦 Usage:

To keep things simple and reduce to number of dependencies, *Preppy* uses your local Babel configuration to transpile your code. You have to make sure that all required Babel mechanics, presets and plugins are installed locally to your project.

Preppy also support extracting *TypeScript* types into `.d.ts` files to make them usable by users of your libraries. The generated code is still transpiled by Babel. The standard `typescript` CLI is used for extracting the types.

### Input Files

These are the typical entry points looked up for by *Preppy*:

- `src/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`

We made the experience that this works pretty fine for most projects. If you have the need for more input files, please report back to us.

### Output Targets

*Preppy* produces exports of your sources depending on the entries of your packages `package.json`. It supports building for *ESM*, *CommonJS* and *UMD*. Just add the relevant entries to the package configuration.

- *CommonJS*: `main`
- *EcmaScript Modules (ESM)*: `module`: New module standard for optimal tree shaking of bundlers.
- *Universal Module Definition (UMD)*: `umd` + `unpkg` for delivering a minified bundle to the CDN.

Basic Example:

```json
{
  "name": "mypackage",
  "main": "lib/index.cjs.js",
  "module": "lib/index.esm.js",
  "unpkg": "lib/index.umd.min.js",
}
```

For exporting types with TypeScript you should add a `types` entry to your `package.json` as well:

```json
{
  "name": "mypackage",
  "main": "lib/index.cjs.js",
  "module": "lib/index.esm.js",
  "unpkg": "lib/index.umd.min.js",
  "types": "lib/index.d.ts"
}
```


### Binary Output(s)

Additionally *Preppy* is capable in generating for binary targets e.g. CLI tools. Not just one, but each of the one listed in the `bin` section of your `package.json`.

The following example generates a `mycli` binary which is generated from the matching source file.

Binaries are generally generated from one of these source files:

- `src/{name}.{js|ts}`
- `src/cli/{name}.{js|ts}`
- `src/cli.{js|ts}`
- `src/cli/index.{js|ts}`

Example Configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "mycli",
  "bin": {
    "mycli": "bin/mycli"
  }
}
```


### Universal Output

*Preppy* also has some support for building universal libraries. While for most projects it's completely feasible
to have one library for both NodeJS and browsers (or only for one of these), others might want (slightly) different
packages to browsers and NodeJS.

The only difference here is that you have to define a new `browser` definition inside your `package.json`. Also
the input fields differ from the one of the normal libraries or binaries:

- `src/client.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/browser.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/client/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/browser/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`

For the NodeJS part you can use any of the following entries:

- `src/node.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/server.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/node/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/server/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`

Example Configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "mylib",
  "browser": "lib/browser.esm.js",
  "unpkg": "lib/browser.umd.js",
  "main": "lib/node.cjs.js",
  "module": "lib/node.esm.js"
}
```

Note: The bundle under `browser` is a ESM bundle which is ideally used by bundlers like *Webpack* or *Parcel*.

Note: When any of these files exists, we use prefer it over the normal library for the `unpkg` entry in `package.json` as well.

### Environment Settings

*Preppy* injects these environment values into your code base:

- `process.env.BUNDLE_NAME`: Extracted `name` field from `package.json`.
- `process.env.BUNDLE_VERSION`: Extracted `version` field from `package.json`.
- `process.env.BUNDLE_TARGET`: One of the supported targets. Either `node`, `browser`, `lib` or `cli`.
- `process.env.NODE_ENV`: Injects environment name. Typical values are `development`, `production` and `test`.

These values are injected into your code base by replacing the original instance.

Note: It only works correctly when you use the whole identifier.

Note: In verbose mode we are logging the environment settings configured.


### Command Line Interface

*Preppy* comes with a binary which can be called from within your `scripts` section
in the `package.json` file.

```json
"scripts": {
  "prepare": "preppy"
}
```

There is also some amount of parameters you can use if the auto detection of your library does not work out correctly.

```
Usage
  $ preppy

Options
  --entry-lib        Entry file for Library (universal) target [auto]
  --entry-browser    Entry file for Browser target [auto]
  --entry-node       Entry file for NodeJS target [auto]
  --entry-cli        Entry file for CLI target [auto]

  --root             The root folder of your project [auto]
  --output           Override output folder (and package.json entries) [auto]
  --watch            Keeps running and rebuilds on any change [false]
  --limit            Limits the current build scope to files matching [null]
  --exec             Executes the generated binary after creation [false]
  --notify           Enables notifications (useful when used in watch mode) [false]

  --no-sourcemap     Disables creation of a source map file during processing [false]

  -v, --verbose      Verbose output mode [false]
  -q, --quiet        Quiet output mode [false]
```


## License

[Apache License; Version 2.0, January 2004](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)


## Copyright

<img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/sebastian-software/sebastian-software-brand/0d4ec9d6/sebastiansoftware-en.svg" alt="Logo of Sebastian Software GmbH, Mainz, Germany" width="460" height="160"/>

Copyright 2016-2019<br/>[Sebastian Software GmbH](http://www.sebastian-software.de)

Commit message:

Added initial info on Lazy JSX. Cleaned up some env docs.

readme.md, after:

# *Preppy*

**An incredibly simple and lightweight tool for preparing packaging for the publishing process.**

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sebastian-software/preppy/master/demo.gif?raw=true" alt="Demo of Preppy" /><br/>

[![Sponsored by][sponsor-img]][sponsor] [![Version][npm-version-img]][npm] [![Downloads][npm-downloads-img]][npm]<br/>
[![Build Status Unix][travis-img]][travis] [![Build Status Windows][appveyor-img]][appveyor] [![Code Coverage][codecov-img]][codecov] [![Dependencies][deps-img]][deps]

[sponsor]: https://www.sebastian-software.de
[deps]: https://david-dm.org/sebastian-software/preppy
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/preppy
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/sebastian-software/preppy
[appveyor]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/swernerx/preppy/branch/master
[codecov]: https://codecov.io/gh/sebastian-software/preppy

[sponsor-img]: https://badgen.net/badge/Sponsored%20by/Sebastian%20Software/692446
[deps-img]: https://badgen.net/david/dep/sebastian-software/preppy
[npm-downloads-img]: https://badgen.net/npm/dm/preppy
[npm-version-img]: https://badgen.net/npm/v/preppy
[travis-img]: https://badgen.net/travis/sebastian-software/preppy?label=unix%20build
[appveyor-img]: https://badgen.net/appveyor/ci/swernerx/preppy?label=windows%20build
[codecov-img]: https://badgen.net/codecov/c/github/sebastian-software/preppy

## 🥁 Features:

- Rock solid infrastructure. Builds on well maintained [Acorn](https://github.com/acornjs/acorn), [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) and [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) under the hood.
- Supports multiple entries (cli, client, server, library, ...) - even multiple binary entries.
- Creates multiple output formats (ESM, CommonJS, UMD, ...)
- Exports *TypeScript* definitions (respects `types` definition in `package.json`).
- *Lazy JSX* support (powered by a custom Rollup plugin) to keep JSX intact while bundling. Major benefit for e.g. UI components: This moves decision over JSX debug capabilities into the application.
- Rebases assets to the bundled output destination. Say hello to images, web fonts, and more. It also supports assets references in CSS/SCSS.
- Includes a *watch mode* for live development. Very useful for developing libraries.
- Supports auto-executing binaries. This is *super useful* when dealing with development web servers for example.
- Offers builds by compressing bundles with *Terser* as needed (for files with `.min` in their name).
- Prints out generated file sizes of all bundles.
- Injects common env-variables into the build (`BUNDLE_{NAME|VERSION|TARGET}`). Also `NODE_ENV` for all UMD builds.
- Executes Babel with an environment based on `NODE_ENV` but with additional data from the `target` (e.g. `node`, `lib` or `cli`) and the output `format` (e.g. `esm`, `cjs`)
- Supports *JSON* out of the box and inlines the serialized content into the bundle.


## 🔧 Installation:

For Preppy itself installation is done by executing one command.

```console
$ npm install -D preppy
```

Dependending on your transpiling needs you need Babel with the requires presets/plugins. This is nothing extra to install typically as you might have these things in-place already. Example:

```console
$ npm install -D @babel/plugin-transform-runtime @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-typescript @babel/core
$ npm install @babel/runtime corejs
```


### Configure Babel

As transpiling happens via Babel you have to install the *Babel* Core, Plugins and Presets on your own. You also need to use a standard Babel Configuration inside your package.

Example `babel.config.js` (has to be CommonJS unfortunately):

```js
module.exports = (api) => {
  const env = api.env()
  const caller = api.caller((inst) => (inst && inst.name) || "any")

  const isBundler = caller === "rollup-plugin-babel"
  const isCli = caller === "@babel/node"
  const isTest = (/\b(test)\b/).exec(env)
  const modules = (isTest && !isBundler) || isCli ? "commonjs" : false
  const isUmd = (/\b(umd)\b/).exec(env)

  return {
    sourceMaps: true,
    plugins: [
      isUmd ? null : [
        "@babel/transform-runtime", {
          corejs: 3
        }
      ]
    ].filter(Boolean),
    presets: [
      [
        "@babel/env",
        {
          useBuiltIns: "usage",
          corejs: 3,
          loose: true,
          modules
        }
      ],
      [
        "@babel/typescript",
        {
          allExtensions: true,
          isTSX: true
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

Note: `env` gets a lot more depth when working with *Preppy*. It's actually set to this: `${env}-${target}-${format}` e.g. `"development-browser-esm"`. This gives you more control e.g. more setting up targets for *Browserslist*.

Note: Leave out the `"@babel/typescript"` when you do not need TypeScript transpiling.

Note: Please disable `transform-runtime` for all UMD builds as UMD is better working when only clean named imports are kept external.

### Installing Babel Dependencies





## 📦 Usage:

To keep things simple and reduce to number of dependencies, *Preppy* uses your local Babel configuration to transpile your code. You have to make sure that all required Babel mechanics, presets and plugins are installed locally to your project.

Preppy also support extracting *TypeScript* types into `.d.ts` files to make them usable by users of your libraries. The generated code is still transpiled by Babel. The standard `typescript` CLI is used for extracting the types.

### Input Files

These are the typical entry points looked up for by *Preppy*:

- `src/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`

We made the experience that this works pretty fine for most projects. If you have the need for more input files, please report back to us.

### Output Targets

*Preppy* produces exports of your sources depending on the entries of your packages `package.json`. It supports building for *ESM*, *CommonJS* and *UMD*. Just add the relevant entries to the package configuration.

- *CommonJS*: `main`
- *EcmaScript Modules (ESM)*: `module`: New module standard for optimal tree shaking of bundlers.
- *Universal Module Definition (UMD)*: `umd` + `unpkg` for delivering a minified bundle to the CDN.

Basic Example:

```json
{
  "name": "mypackage",
  "main": "lib/index.cjs.js",
  "module": "lib/index.esm.js",
  "unpkg": "lib/index.umd.min.js",
}
```

For exporting types with TypeScript you should add a `types` entry to your `package.json` as well:

```json
{
  "name": "mypackage",
  "main": "lib/index.cjs.js",
  "module": "lib/index.esm.js",
  "unpkg": "lib/index.umd.min.js",
  "types": "lib/index.d.ts"
}
```


### Binary Output(s)

Additionally *Preppy* is capable in generating for binary targets e.g. CLI tools. Not just one, but each of the one listed in the `bin` section of your `package.json`.

The following example generates a `mycli` binary which is generated from the matching source file.

Binaries are generally generated from one of these source files:

- `src/{name}.{js|ts}`
- `src/cli/{name}.{js|ts}`
- `src/cli.{js|ts}`
- `src/cli/index.{js|ts}`

Example Configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "mycli",
  "bin": {
    "mycli": "bin/mycli"
  }
}
```


### Universal Output

*Preppy* also has some support for building universal libraries. While for most projects it's completely feasible
to have one library for both NodeJS and browsers (or only for one of these), others might want (slightly) different
packages to browsers and NodeJS.

The only difference here is that you have to define a new `browser` definition inside your `package.json`. Also
the input fields differ from the one of the normal libraries or binaries:

- `src/client.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/browser.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/client/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/browser/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`

For the NodeJS part you can use any of the following entries:

- `src/node.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/server.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/node/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`
- `src/server/index.{js|jsx|ts|tsx}`

Example Configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "mylib",
  "browser": "lib/browser.esm.js",
  "unpkg": "lib/browser.umd.js",
  "main": "lib/node.cjs.js",
  "module": "lib/node.esm.js"
}
```

Note: The bundle under `browser` is a ESM bundle which is ideally used by bundlers like *Webpack* or *Parcel*.

Note: When any of these files exists, we use prefer it over the normal library for the `unpkg` entry in `package.json` as well.

### Environment Settings

*Preppy* injects these environment values into your code base:

- `process.env.BUNDLE_NAME`: Extracted `name` field from `package.json`.
- `process.env.BUNDLE_VERSION`: Extracted `version` field from `package.json`.
- `process.env.BUNDLE_TARGET`: One of the supported targets. Either `node`, `browser`, `lib` or `cli`.
- `process.env.NODE_ENV`: Injects environment name. Typical values are `development`, `production` and `test`.

These values are injected into your code base by replacing the original instance.

Note: It only works correctly when you use the whole identifier.

Note: In verbose mode we are logging the environment settings configured.


### Command Line Interface

*Preppy* comes with a binary which can be called from within your `scripts` section
in the `package.json` file.

```json
"scripts": {
  "prepare": "preppy"
}
```

There is also some amount of parameters you can use if the auto detection of your library does not work out correctly.

```
Usage
  $ preppy

Options
  --entry-lib        Entry file for Library (universal) target [auto]
  --entry-browser    Entry file for Browser target [auto]
  --entry-node       Entry file for NodeJS target [auto]
  --entry-cli        Entry file for CLI target [auto]

  --root             The root folder of your project [auto]
  --output           Override output folder (and package.json entries) [auto]
  --watch            Keeps running and rebuilds on any change [false]
  --limit            Limits the current build scope to files matching [null]
  --exec             Executes the generated binary after creation [false]
  --notify           Enables notifications (useful when used in watch mode) [false]

  --no-sourcemap     Disables creation of a source map file during processing [false]

  -v, --verbose      Verbose output mode [false]
  -q, --quiet        Quiet output mode [false]
```


## License

[Apache License; Version 2.0, January 2004](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)


## Copyright

<img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/sebastian-software/sebastian-software-brand/0d4ec9d6/sebastiansoftware-en.svg" alt="Logo of Sebastian Software GmbH, Mainz, Germany" width="460" height="160"/>

Copyright 2016-2019<br/>[Sebastian Software GmbH](http://www.sebastian-software.de)
